Welcome to session 101,
Getting Started with
Mac OS X Administration.
My name's Brian Loose,
and I'll be the presenter today.
And along with me is Jason Deraleau,
offstage.
And Jason will do a couple
of demos tonight for us.
So just informally,
we've got a couple of questions we
wanted to ask about the session.
How many of you would say that
you're new to the Mac platform?
Hands.
Okay, and how many would say
that they've got experience
administering Windows platform?
And then, and also for Unix, Linux?
Okay, so a fair amount.
Okay, let's get started then.
As Bertrand told us this afternoon,
the Mac platform is only
increasing as a platform.
And it's become a great business tool,
really,
in the last few years particularly.
Now, you're probably seeing in a lot
of your own businesses that you
see management and power users,
both that are bringing Macs into the
office and they're getting work done on
the Macs and they're being productive.
But a lot of you are probably thinking,
how can a Mac integrate
into our environment?
How can we make it integrate?
And how can I also support that when
I may not have Mac administration
specialties or capabilities and
you have a lot of MCSEs or Unix,
Linux admins on staff?
So how can I be sure that somebody with
that knowledge can administer some Macs
that I'm bringing into my organization
and hopefully expanding that presence?
So we'll answer a lot of those questions
and we'll show you some equivalent
platform tools that we have on the Mac.
And we'll also talk about how
we can use some of our existing
infrastructure in our IT organizations
to integrate and support those
Macs that we're bringing in.
So we'll do that in a number of ways.
First, we'll give you an overview
of Mac OS X administration.
Now, this is not intended
to be a real deep dive,
but it's intended to have you get
a real good look at the platform,
see what some of the tools are,
and then look at the rest of the
sessions over the week and see where
you want to get more information and
more of a deep dive into that topic.
So first we'll give you a
very brief platform overview.
Just to kind of give everyone a level
set of the hardware and software
platforms that we're dealing with,
just in case you missed some
of the sessions this morning.
And we'll show you some of the
tools and utilities that you'll
use to administer Mac OS X,
both from the GUI and the command line.
Now next, there's four things that
we're going to cover today,
really.
First, user accounts.
And just some basics about how
do I configure user accounts from
a local perspective on the Mac.
Then we'll dive a little
bit deeper and talk about,
well, how would I do that if I was
tied into a directory system,
a directory service,
both on a Mac or an active directory?
Third, we'll look at policy management.
A lot of you that are
familiar with the PC platform,
we call it policy management.
On the Mac, very commonly referred
to as client management.
So when you see sessions
that say client management,
that's pretty much what we're talking
about is how do we administer policy.
And lastly, system deployment.
Taking a Mac out of the box,
how do we get it ready to give to a user?
How do we manage it over its
lifetime so I can distribute
updates and things like that to it?
And lastly, we're going to cover some
of the related sessions.
As you're looking through that
guide of sessions to attend,
we'll have a list of all those.
We can quickly go over those at the end.
We'll also point out sessions on slides,
which usually you probably
won't see too much during this,
but because it's an overview session,
we are going to point out relevant
sessions right on the slides.
So with that,
let's start with a platform overview.
So a lot of you are
probably very familiar,
you know, in the last two, three years,
Apple's transitioned
to the Intel platform.
And that's -- they've been
a great partner of ours,
and all of our machines are on Intel,
and for that matter,
They're all very much standards-based.
Beyond the processor themselves,
when you think about things
like the USB interfaces,
using keyboards, mice, thumb drives,
USB hard drives, firewire drives,
displays, using DVI or VGA displays,
and those types of areas.
And as Bertrand mentioned this morning,
multi-core is very, very important.
Now,
Mac OS X has always been very friendly to
the multi-core and the multi-core area,
always recognizing those cores,
always making them available to
both the operating system and
the applications that are written
to specifically address those.
Now, a third area where you probably
are less familiar with is EFI.
Now, rather than using BIOS like
the traditional PC standard
of the last decade and a half,
The Mac uses EFI to handle
pre-boot types of capabilities.
Now, EFI is that next generation
standard from Intel,
and I think over the next few years,
you'll start to see PCs as
Microsoft supports EFI,
you'll see that in the
hardware of the machines,
and that's what we use.
And it gives us some great capabilities.
Because we were bringing our platform
up on Intel from very recently,
we were able to see that
this was a future direction,
and so we built on EFI rather than BIOS.
I mentioned it gives
us some great things.
So with EFI, we can emulate BIOS,
and that's what we do as one of
the ways that we allow you to
use the capability of Boot Camp,
which allows you to actually
install and boot Windows on a
parallel partition on your Mac and
switch that back and forth and use
that either one whenever you want.
Now, a lot of people are using VMs and
virtual machines to do emulation.
I'm sorry, not emulation,
but virtualization.
But in some cases,
you may want to boot that Mac directly
into Windows and make use of it.
So Boot Camp gives you that capability.
And to have it on the machine installed
right alongside your Mac gives you
a great opportunity to do that.
Now the next real foundation
technology of Mac OS X is Unix.
A lot of people are familiar
with our great GUI interface,
and it's been -- it's what's
made Mac OS X very popular
with a lot of people.
But the real foundation and the
strength of Mac OS X is the Unix
underpinnings and the foundations.
So let's take a little bit
of a further look at that.
So with Leopard,
one of the things that's a great
improvement in the platform
is being UNIX 03 registered,
one of four platforms to do that.
So we are a certified UNIX.
And we're also POSIX compliant.
So if you have source code
that's also POSIX compliant,
you can be pretty sure that you
can bring that source code in,
you can build it, compile it,
and run it on our Unix foundations.
Now, you're going to find that
it's very similar to BSD.
You'll find a lot of the same
directory structures and a
lot of the same commands,
so it'll be very familiar to you.
But in a lot of cases,
there are certain commands
that you may not find.
You might think that they're missing.
But in fact,
they've probably been superseded by
commands that Apple has written that go
beyond the initial command that you might
be missing and address functionality
far beyond and integrate further into
the Mac environment than the binary
commands that you may have been missing.
So last, let's talk about networking
and communications.
Nowadays,
communications and being able to
communicate to people in a wide variety
of ways has never been more important.
So whether you're using a dial-up modem,
a cellular card, Wi-Fi,
or gigabit Ethernet,
some of the fastest standards,
You can be sure that with
our self-tuning TCP/IP stack,
that we're gonna manage things
like latency to make sure that
you get the best throughput,
no matter whether you're using
a modem or that gig ethernet.
So it's gonna manage that for you.
Very powerful TCP/IP stack.
And our networking is
also very standards-based.
So you can be sure that you
can take a Mac out of the box,
either plug it into your network,
configure it to work with your wireless,
configure that security if needed,
and you can be sure that you're
going to get an IP address,
you're going to get on that network,
and you're going to be
able to start working.
I've also got a very robust
firewall that supports both IPSec
and PPTP standards for Microsoft.
So that's built in, ready to go,
right out of the box.
And finally, if you are having some
issues with your networking,
you can be sure that there are
a lot of diagnostics tools,
both in the GUI and in the command line,
to help you get through a rough patch
that you might be having networking-wise.
Now let's take a look at some
of the tools and utilities
that you're going to use.
Now, a lot of these you'll find have
equivalents both in Windows and the Unix.
And so we'll try to point
those out where relevant.
The first tool,
which is very handy when you're
doing any type of diagnostics,
and you can use either by yourself
or you can even prompt a user to very
easily use and give you some piece
of information to diagnose something.
This is System Profiler.
Now you can also call this
from the command line in the
user S-bin system profiler,
and that'll spit out an XML list
of information that you can
capture to a file and possibly
save or transport somewhere.
But you've also got a full GUI interface
into this to very easily check the
settings of a specific device or if
a specific device is even showing up.
The next is Activity Monitor.
It just gives you a very quick basic
system resource usage of the system.
Kind of see if you've got a process
that's perhaps using more resources
on the processor or from a system
memory than it should be and manage
that process a little bit better,
in some cases killing it.
Very similar to the Unix
command top or even PS.
So from a command line or GUI,
you're pretty much covered there.
Now, as a Unix admin,
one of the things that is usually
very troubling is the myriad of
areas where logs from a system
or application standpoint are
stored all across your system.
One of the things that the console
application does is allows you one very
quick interface into all the system logs,
all the application logs,
and can very easily allow you
to go in and check out a log and
also filter a log for keywords.
Another thing that Jason's going to
show you in the demo is a neat feature
where you can mark sections of the log.
So it's very easy to go back and see
where you were in a log at a specific
time when you waited for an event
to happen that you were looking for.
Oh, let's go back in there.
One thing is that you're probably
used to on the Unix command
line is using the tail command.
Okay, so we can wait for events that
are logged to a specific file.
Very similar in this area.
You use this instead.
System Preferences is the one place
in Mac OS X where you can configure
all of your OS environment settings.
So things like setting up your
desktop and your dock and some
very Mac specific things such as
your expose window management.
Now, there are a lot of similar command
line types of tools that we also have.
The network setup command from the
command line will allow you to do most
of the configuration settings that
you can do in the network preference.
PMSET is a command line tool
that will allow you to do very
similar things to the energy saver
settings in the preferences panel.
And MDUtil is a utility that will
allow you to manage Spotlight.
Now, the spotlight,
as you can see up here,
is one area that you can configure
to allow you to index metadata
for your files in Mac OS X.
So you can do this from the command line.
You can also do many of these things.
You can do them all in the GUI,
but many of them from
the command line as well.
And lastly, CUPSD.
CUPSD is the system that runs
our printing architecture
from the command line.
There's also a web interface into
CUPSD that you may want to look at.
That can help you manage printers
from the command line if you need to.
So, let's go ahead and start.
Next is Disk Utility.
This is the one tool that
you'll probably use to format,
erase, partition disks,
whether that's a single
OS X HFS partition or
even a Windows partition.
You can configure all those types
of partitions in Disk Utility.
There are also some great companion
tools in the command line,
Disk Util and HDI Util,
which is more geared towards
So being able to take an
entire disk that you have,
a physical disk,
and copying that into a disk
image that you can move,
copy, and deploy on another disk.
Now,
we talked about some of the capabilities
for doing networking diagnostics.
Network utility is a very,
very easy application to use.
You could probably walk any user
through using this and can get
some great information about what
your Mac sees networking-wise.
So you've got a lot of the
familiar Unix commands there,
ping.
You can do some things like
the netstat capability.
And you have similar
functionality to host,
the dig, and the ifconfig commands.
So, a very good tool for
diagnosing networking issues.
Now,
Directory Utility is a primary tool that
you'll use to do binding of machines.
We'll talk a little bit more
about Directory Services.
We've got a whole section on it later.
But this is the tool that you would use
to bind your machine either to LDAP,
open Directory Servers,
active Directory Servers,
all right inside Directory Utility.
Now, there are also many command
line equivalents to this.
You'll see Directory Service,
DSConfig LDAP,
DS Config AD, DS Cache Util,
and the Mount command.
Those are all commands that
we do in a very similar way,
but through the GUI with direct utility.
Now, the next two are a couple
of server-based tools.
If you were in the last session,
I'm sure you saw some of that.
But first one is Server Admin.
It allows you to administer a server
locally on the box or remotely.
Very easy to do that either way.
And from a command line perspective,
you can also do this with a command
line tool called Server Admin.
So this is primarily for starting
and stopping server processes and
also configuring those processes.
And additionally,
it will also handle all of
your file share capabilities.
So if you were going to reshare
a directory on the system,
this is where you'd go to do that.
It also gives you
status of these as well.
As you see there, all green lights.
Everything's great.
Second tool, Workgroup Manager.
And this is primarily for managing users,
groups, and computers, and policies.
Some command line tools that will
also do similar types of things,
DSCL, DS Group Edit, and PW Policy.
So if you're into the command line,
you'll want to look into those tools.
And now lastly,
Remote Desktop is not included
in the operating system like
the rest of those tools are,
but it's a great tool for beginning
and medium-sized networks that want
one tool that can manage their Macs
from a number of different areas.
You can observe Macs on your network,
be able to grab their screen, view it,
control it.
You can also do things like
install software over the network,
push software out to those machines.
You can also do some great things.
One of my favorite things is to be
able to distribute a Unix command
across a number of machines.
So you can do things one machine
at a time with Remote Desktop,
but you can also batch those things.
So you can select a
group of 100 machines,
deploy a piece of software to them.
Or issue a Unix command and have
the result come back from all 100
machines from their Unix command line.
So this is an additional
piece of software.
And now we've got Jason to
come up and give us a demo of
the typical Mac admins doc.
And he's gonna go through some of
those applications that we just spoke
about and give you just a very brief
tour of some of their capabilities.
Over to demo machine, Jason.
So I'm just going to walk through
a quick demo here of some of the
different tools that Brian just covered.
First one up we have is System Profiler.
And System Profiler is a great way
to go in and take a look at the
details of the hardware and software
configuration inside your machine.
I kind of think of this like
the old MSD command under DOS.
You get a lot of information
about what particular hardware
is installed in the machine.
For example,
I can see the graphics adapter
in this particular workstation.
I can take a look at the
different hard drives installed.
I can get into different software
configurations so I can find out
what version of an application
is installed on the machine,
when it was last modified,
and even can tell me whether it's
a universal binary or maybe like
a classic one that would require
me to use the classic environment,
which we don't really
have as much these days.
I can also take a look at extensions,
which are similar to the
concept of device drivers.
This is the way that the hardware
is going to talk to the kernel.
And there's a lot of great information
in here that you can use to collect
specifications about the machine,
what the current configuration is,
and whether anything has
been changed recently.
You have the ability to go in if
you're working with AppleCare,
for example.
You can send the information
directly to Apple.
You can save it out to a file and perhaps
send it to your IT department if you're
on the road and having problems with it.
And it's just a great tool to
get all the information about
the machine in one place.
Moving on,
the next tool is Activity Monitor.
And with Activity Monitor,
like Brian was saying earlier,
this is very similar to
the Unix top command.
Getting information about what processes
are currently running on the machine,
how much memory they're using, CPU time.
I have some nice little graphs
down here at the bottom as far as
what the disk activity currently
going on in the system is.
If I come up here to this show box,
I can actually see all the
processes hierarchically.
So I can see how the different
processes are structured on the machine,
and I can see the bridge between
the system processes themselves
and into the user space.
Another thing I particularly like
about this tool is you can go in and
sometimes you get a problem where I'm
maybe trying to eject an external drive
and it keeps saying a file's open.
Well, if you go into Activity Monitor,
you can inspect the process,
and it'll actually show you what files
and ports are open on the machine.
So this is kind of some of the
same kinds of information you
got in Netstat and also some
information out of the LSOF command.
and for you Unix admins.
The ability here to stop processes,
do sampling,
get some more information about what's
currently running on the machine.
Next tool I'd like to
show you here is Console.
And with Console,
usually when you first open it up,
you kind of want to come over
here and click Show All Logs.
And what this will do is allow
you to see all the logs that
are gathered up in the system.
And these are organized
into different domains.
Brian touches on this a little
bit later in the presentation,
but depending on whether the log is,
for example,
something running in my user space,
like an application like
Mail or maybe the .max sync
panel or something like that,
that's going to end up in
a different location on the
system than system processes.
So, for example, if I want to take a look
at what the Apache logs are
doing for the Apache service,
I can come down here to Var Log,
where you'd find it
traditionally on a Unix system.
However, for something like within
the Disk Utility tool,
when I run it in my workstation,
I'd find that in my local log file.
Now,
kind of a neat thing here that I like,
and I kind of wish Event Viewer
had this on the Windows side,
is the ability to mark the log.
So I can actually click
here to insert a marker,
and you can see it does a timestamp.
And then I'm just going
to open up Terminal here,
and I'm going to issue a bad command.
Now,
if I come back over here to System Log,
I can actually see that the information
about the failed attempt for the
authentication is popping up in the log.
And now I can insert another marker,
and this gives me two points of
reference to determine what's going on
in the system when I have this failure.
So if I'm having problems with a service
starting or I keep getting an error
when I'm trying to upload something,
I can come in here, mark the logs,
repeat what the process is,
and then use that as a way
to troubleshoot a little
further on what's going on.
Now, System Preferences is very
similar to Control Panel,
same kind of tool you would use on the
Windows side to configure a lot of the
basic configuration of the machine.
And actually,
you can even use a lot of the
Windows terminology in here.
So, for example, on the Mac,
we call our background a desktop picture,
but on Windows, you call it a wallpaper,
right?
So I can come up here, type wallpaper,
and it's actually going to suggest to
me that I go over to this particular
panel and then change my picture.
One other one I also get questions quite
often about is going into right-clicking.
And you'll find that if you go
into the keyboard and mouse panel,
you have the ability to
go into the mouse section.
And you can actually switch
this over to secondary button,
which will make it act
like a right-click.
So even if you have a standard USB mouse
that adheres to the HID standard,
you can come in here,
enable the right-click,
and it'll work just like a
mouse would on Windows side.
As far as Disk Utility goes, again,
this is a way you'd use to
go in and partition drives.
You can also use it to set
up different file systems.
A nice feature of Disk Utility is you
can create images of different devices.
So, for example,
if I have a CD and some software on
a CD that I want to make a backup of,
I can actually use Disk Utility to make
a copy of that in a file on my machine,
and then I can back it up on my
workstation instead of having
to burn another copy of it.
Another feature I really like
about Disk Utility is you have
the ability to go in and do
multi-pass erases on a drive.
So, for example,
I'm about to decommission a
whole bunch of workstations,
I'm going to throw them up on eBay.
Before I do that,
I probably want to go in and
erase my company's sensitive data.
So, I can come into Disk Utility,
go to the erase portion,
and right here I have this
option for security options.
And in here you can see I can
zero out the data just to get
the drive out to a certain state.
I can do a seven-pass erase or a
35-pass erase to eradicate the data.
Something I do personally is
just kind of a best practice.
I like to zero out the drive before
I install the operating system on it
because it'll actually try to write
to every single sector on the drive,
and that way, if any of them are bad,
it'll mark it in the volume
bitmap and it won't use that
block for data in the future.
As far as network utility goes, this is,
again,
a tool you would use to do a lot of
diagnostics related to the network stack.
You have some pretty standard stuff here,
you know, as far as I can get information
about a network interface,
which, you know,
is very similar to if I did
perhaps the ifconfig command,
I'd get a lot of the same
information right here in the box.
Netstat, you know,
if I want to take a look at the
routing table on the machine,
I can get that back and find it here.
If you're still using Apple Talk,
you can make use of this through here.
DNS lookups, trace routes,
all the standard kind of
tools you'd find in there,
even a rudimentary port scan utility.
So it's a great tool for just a
graphical interface for users who may
not be comfortable with the command
line to do basic network diagnostics,
but can at least click around in
a box and work with you on the
phone while you're working on it.
As far as directory utility goes,
this is the tool you use to connect
to different directory systems.
For example, in this case here,
I'm working off an open directory server.
There's also options to add
active directory servers.
So if I want to go in
here and click plus,
I can say I want to use active directory
and just as easily bind to an AD backend
in my enterprise environment as I could
bind to an open directory environment.
There's also the ability to go in
and search some advanced settings
here where I can set up mount points,
I can disable and enable
different plug-ins,
and I also have the ability
to modify the search policy.
And for those of you who are a
little newer to the platform,
the search policy is
kind of a unique case.
On Windows, you know how you have
the authentication box,
and typically you have a name,
a password,
and then you have a selection of a domain
at the bottom where you would pick which
particular domain you want to log into.
On the Mac,
the way you pick what domain is used is
based on the order of the search path.
So if, for example,
the LDAP directory has a
user account named Bob,
and the Active Directory system
has a user account named Bob,
whichever one comes in the list first
is the Bob that's going to get used.
So if you're having problems logging in,
it's usually a good idea to come in
here and just double-check the order
that you have in here to be sure that
you're authenticating against the
directory system you think you are.
For Server Admin, again,
this is the basic tool to come in and not
only examine the status of the server,
but also configure its services.
So it's kind of like the
services panel in Windows,
but it's a little more featureful.
Not only am I able to stop
and start the services,
but it's also a way to
manage their settings.
There's a lot of great
information in here about the
machine as I'm looking at it,
so I can find out, again,
some of these graphs.
I can see an activity monitor
about CPU usage and disk usage.
I have an overview here of the
different services that are
currently enabled on the machine.
And you can see in the list here that a
green dot means it's currently active,
while a gray dot means it's
not running at the moment.
So in this case, DHCP is not running.
I have the ability to go
in to look in the logs,
and this is the same information
I'd find in the console tool,
but the big difference here is
that all of our server admin tools,
as far as server admin,
work group manager,
they're designed to be used remotely.
So the idea is I can have
my administrative laptop
sitting at my desk here,
and I can manage an entire rack of
servers in the other room from one place,
and I can go in and view
all their logs individually,
collect performance information,
and otherwise configure the machines.
Again, some more of these nice
graphs we can look at,
configuring share points on the server,
giving a list of updates,
SSL certificates, pretty standard fare.
Another big one's notifications, right?
As far as the individual
services themselves go,
they have a pretty standard format.
Each one will have an overview
telling you what the current
status of the service is.
Depending on the different service,
it will give you a little
bit of information here,
like the connections in use,
or if we look at mail,
it will tell me a little more
detail about the different
services related to mail.
So depending on the service,
these vary a little bit,
but generally speaking,
you'll have an overview information
about the current status of the service.
You'll have some log information for the
logs related to that particular service,
and then depending on what service it is,
I might get some things like more
graphs or a connection table.
And then finally, at the end of the list,
I'll have the settings.
And in here, this is how I would actually
configure the service itself.
So the settings for
AFP are going to be very,
very different than
the settings for DHCP.
It's just what's involved in
the nature of the service.
Finally,
Workgroup Manager is the tool I would
use to configure my user accounts.
So this is similar to
Active Directory Users and Computers.
And in here, I can go in,
create new users, delete users,
change passwords.
I have the ability to set different
types of password policies.
So for example,
if I want to require the password
to be changed on a specific date
or introduce different types of
password complexity requirements,
I can do that through Workgroup Manager.
Additionally,
no standard things you would find
related to a user account as far as
the groups the user is a member of,
where their home
directory is going to be.
If you're using the
Windows services in Mac OS X Server,
you can configure their
profile path and login script.
It's a pretty standard tool for
just setting up your user accounts
and putting them into place.
Additionally,
we'll touch on this a little later,
but when you get into the
policy management portion,
this is where you go in and
configure your policy management
for your user accounts.
If I want to enforce different types
of company policy on the user account,
I can do that through WorkRoute Manager.
The command line equivalent tool,
or one of the many that you can
use with work group managers,
is called DSCL.
And I actually like this one a
lot because it lets you browse the
directory service system as if it
were a directory on a file system.
So, for example,
I can use the LS command and I can
see the individual plugins that are
currently configured on the machine.
I can CD into, say, the LDAP plugin.
I can see what servers it's connected to.
And then from there,
I can go in and look further
into it as far as finding,
for example, my list of users.
A lot of Unix administrators may be
familiar with the tools like UserAd or
UserDel that you would find on a standard
Linux machine or like a BSD machine.
And unfortunately,
that isn't the exact equivalent
available on Mac OS X,
but using DSCL, you can introduce a lot
of the same functionality.
So, really, again,
this is just a basic overview
of the different tools.
You'd use and you'd find in a
typical Mac administrator's doc.
And, again, I think that each one
has its own purpose.
And just as you would when
you're administering a
Windows machine or a Unix machine,
you'll find that even though the
tools may be a little different,
the underlying concepts are the same.
You're still working with user accounts.
You're still setting up
services and configuring them.
Brian?
So the next thing we're going
to talk about are users,
and specifically users
from a local perspective,
those that are configured on
the actual computer themselves.
Now, there are a couple of things,
sometimes we consider
those best practices,
some things that you might want
to do right out of the box,
especially in the corporate
workspace for a local user.
So you've probably seen when you
configure a user on Mac OS X,
it asks you for the name, the password,
and it logs you right in.
And any time you restart the computer,
it logs you right in.
So the first thing you probably want to
do is go into the accounts preference.
And by default,
it's going to have that state
until you create a second user.
Now, if you don't want a second user,
You can go in and configure that to
give you what we call login window.
So when the machine comes up,
it will either give you an icon
to display the users that are
available and a space for a password,
or just two spaces to enter
a name and a password.
So that's what I recommend for
best security is two empty spaces.
So you can configure that in
the account system preference.
And so that's where you
configure login window.
And as we mentioned,
the first account that you
create has admin privileges.
Now, that's good because admin is
the level of user that you need
to create additional users.
So in many cases, what people will do,
they'll create an admin user
on the computer and call it
admin or some variation of that.
And then for actual users,
even if you are the main
user on the machine,
create a second user for yourself
and run as a standard user.
It's a good security practice that you
might want to get used to on a computer.
But it's important to realize that
even if you stay admin on the machine,
admin level user, it's not root, okay?
There are still many,
many areas on the computer
you can't get to and things
that you can't do as an admin.
So even when you want to
change things on the computer,
if you haven't authenticated
an application to do something,
it's still going to pop up a
dialog box if you're admin and say,
please authenticate as
admin so I can do this.
Now the admin user can create
additional users as we mentioned,
standard users as well as guest users,
something that's new to Mac OS X Leopard.
We'll talk about guest
users in the next slide.
But as I mentioned,
we probably recommend that you
just run as a standard user
with standard user privileges.
Now, what's nice about this as a
standard user is that you can always
authenticate as an admin anytime
an authentication box comes up.
So it doesn't really
limit you in any way.
If you do know the admin password,
you can go ahead and authenticate
and allow something to happen.
And if you have a user that's
running as just a standard user,
they can call you up and say, hey,
something's going on in the box
and it says I need to authenticate.
You can walk over to the box and you can
authenticate with your admin privileges
in the box and allow something to happen.
So it doesn't mean you're
locked out running a standard.
It just means I'm going to
need to talk to somebody before
I can get something done.
Now,
it is important to realize that once you
authenticate and you allow an application
the privilege to change something
low level that requires admin access,
that application still has, by default,
five minutes of admin privilege to it.
So, best practice,
you'd probably want to quit that
application after you change something
so that your user couldn't go ahead and
change it back or change it to something
different that you didn't want to happen.
Now let's talk a little bit
about a guest user account.
We can use this in some
kind of interesting ways.
I'm sure you can think of a few ways
that or a few things that you can
use it for in your own organizations.
Now, as I mentioned, it's new in Leopard,
and one of the things that's really nice
about it is that it gives you an account
that somebody can just click on guest or
type in guest and no password is needed.
Now, because of that,
the home folder is completely temporary,
and after the user is done working
and doing what they want to do,
maybe accessing a website or accessing
a file share that they needed to
authenticate to and log on to.
When they log out,
then that entire home folder
is deleted when they leave.
So number one,
it's very important that any work
they do is copied back onto a server,
which is great.
Or if they're using a website,
obviously whatever's going to get changed
in the website is going to stay changed.
And the reason we did this is
that it took a lot of manual
work to do this in the past.
People wrote things like login
hooks and logout hooks to manage
users that didn't necessarily
have an account on the machine,
but they still wanted people
to have access to a machine.
So we put this in.
Now keep in mind that this is
anonymous access on the computer.
It means that anybody can just
walk up and log in as guest if
the guest account is enabled.
It's not enabled by default,
but if you turn it on, keep that in mind.
The fact that it is anonymous may mean
that it's something that you might not
be able to use in your organizations.
You might want to check with your
IT security guidelines because you may
not allow anonymous logins on a computer.
But where it is allowed,
it can be very handy in situations.
Now, additionally,
you can restrict this account with
what we call parental controls.
Now, it's a little bit misleading,
and it's called parental controls for
a number of reasons we don't need to
get into too much in this discussion.
But what it allows you to do is a
very smaller subset of basically
policy management for users.
We'll talk about that a little bit later.
Now the next thing we want
to cover is the concept of
resource domains on the computer.
One of the things that you'll
notice is that as a user,
you only have access to
specific areas on the computer.
And if you need to get access to other
areas that are restricted to you,
you're going to need to have a
little bit higher level of access.
So let's talk about that
a little bit right here.
Across the top we have the domain,
the type of usage that that
domain or directory is used for.
And then we have each of
the account types inside of
Mac OS X and how that account has
access to that different domain.
So if we look at that second line where
it says home directory or home dir,
and what that's used for
is your own user data.
And as a guest all the way through root,
you have read and write
access to your home directory.
Now, if we go one level deeper
into that home directory,
you've probably seen the
library subdirectory.
Now, what that library directory is
used for are additional types of
data that applications may store.
You'll also see a preferences
folder inside there.
All of your preferences get stored
in that library preferences.
You'll also see a fonts folder.
So, anytime you want to add a
font into your computer,
you go into the home directory, library,
fonts, you would add that in.
Now, it's important to note that anything
that you do in the library domain or
the directory in your home directory,
it only applies to you as a user,
not to anybody else on the computer.
So, if you were to do something
like add a screensaver,
in some cases, it does ask you now,
do you want this to apply to just you as
a user or to all users on the machine?
And we'll get to that situation next.
But you can see,
even inside of your home directory,
that library domain,
each account type still has
full read-write access to
the information in there,
which means you can throw
it away and delete it.
If you're having an issue
with a preference and you're
trying to diagnose it yourself,
you can take a preference, throw it away,
you'll be fine.
Now it's when we get to
the next level of library,
which is at the root of the file system.
That's where computer specific data goes,
data and resources.
Now, in addition to resources like fonts,
screen savers, things like that,
applications can also install
files and resources in this area.
So if you were to run an application
that needed to be run from any
user account on the system,
if it needed to get
access to those resources,
it would go in here because,
as you can see, we have read-only access.
All accounts have read-only
access to that domain.
Okay, very important.
So I can read the resources, use them,
but I can't change them as
a guest or a standard user.
Now we can get in there as an
admin and pull those out and
change them if we need to,
or root.
And then beyond that,
we can make available a
network library folder.
Now,
it serves the same purpose as library,
but that access to the network
library would be given to you
through some sort of an AFP mount,
NFS mount perhaps.
And what that does is allows you to
distribute the same types of information,
fonts, screensavers, whatever it may be,
but it allows you to put that on a
network share and change it in one
central place rather than having
to push that information or copy it
out to a user's local slash library.
Now, there may be reasons why you
would want to store it locally,
such as performance type reasons,
but in a lot of cases,
having a network library is great
because you change it in one place.
And everyone that has that network
library mount automatically
receives those changes.
Now, if you look at that line,
network library, and we look across,
we show that admin still has
read and write access to that.
So in this case,
we're assuming that the admin also
has read-write access to the file
share that that mount is based off of.
Now lastly, we have the system library.
Now this is dedicated to operating
system specific types of resources.
So little utility programs and resources
that the operating system needs.
And nobody has access to those except
in certain situations where the admin
may be able to authenticate as admin.
In the case where you're installing
a kernel extension for some reason to
support additional hardware or maybe to
install a kernel extension for a server.
You may want to install some
resources for a VM environment.
So it does require that
that admin authenticate.
Okay, so in general,
you don't delete anything out of there.
It's generally specifically for
the operating system itself.
Let's now look at a couple of
advanced tips for local users
that you might want to look into.
This is new in the
accounts preference pane.
There isn't a lot of detail in the
user accounts for people sometimes.
If you right-click or
control-click on individual user
accounts in that preference,
it will show you additional information,
such as the directory that that
user's home directory is stored in.
It will show you their user ID,
their group ID,
their generated GUID as well.
So additional information in there.
It also allows you, if you're an admin,
allows you to change that.
Now with knowledge is power and
the ability to change stuff,
but you also have to take responsibility
because you can screw things up
by changing anything in there,
such as a user's user ID.
But it's there if you need it.
Now, additionally,
how do we enable root on the system?
Since we said that admin,
the admin user is not root,
and root is not enabled by
default on the computer.
So if you go into that accounts pane,
you can enable root if you're admin only,
and you can turn that on and give it a
separate password from your admin user.
Additionally,
you can use the ds enable root
command from the command line.
So if you're already an
admin on the computer,
you can run the ds enable root command.
It will ask you for a
password for the root user.
You give it a password,
preferably different
than your admin users,
and you're off and running.
You can now log in from
the command line as root.
Once again,
dangerous because it will do what
you tell it and it does not forgive.
Okay?
So very, very careful on the RMs
and that sort of thing.
Okay?
We covered that.
Another new thing in Leopard
is the ability to have a home
directory on a portable device.
So you might have a nice beefy thumb
drive or a FireWare drive or a USB drive.
You can now create an account
that has that home directory
stored right on the thumb drive,
and you can make that portable and
carry it around with you and plug it
into machines that are authorized to
have an account installed that way,
or if you have a network-based account
that has those settings stored in it,
it will be able to use that thumb drive.
Now lastly, another real dangerous area.
That's why this is an advanced tip, okay?
There's a file called authorization
inside the /etc directory.
Now, this file is a compilation of
a number of different security
settings in the operating system.
It's only available to
-- it's not available to,
you know, standard users.
To be able to get to that and edit it,
you have to have the right privileges.
Now, it does allow you to change some of
the security parameters on the system.
Now,
we're not going to get into those here,
and it's not really well documented,
but it does allow us to have some
workarounds into some security
issues that you may be having or some
capabilities that -- or configuration
changes that you think you need
for a couple of different reasons,
and you can't change any
other way on the computer.
This is an area that you can look into.
Okay?
Now, lastly,
we're going to mention a great session,
512, Deploying Macs in a
Highly Secure Environment.
Now, in addition to this that
you might want to attend,
a Leopard security document was
just released on the Apple website.
So that may be also something that you
want to look into to help you configure
your Macs specifically from a security
perspective to meet your IT policy needs.
So we talked about local
users on the machine,
but that's really not that powerful.
What we really need in a lot of
your environments is our users need
access to just about any machine
that they sit down in front of.
And the way that we accomplish
that is directory services,
and we do that in a very similar way
as pretty much any other platform.
So why do we use directory services?
Well, it allows us to take all those user
accounts that used to sit locally
on machines and allow us to put
them in a central location and apply
policy information to those as well.
So this greatly simplifies
our administration.
So we don't have to
visit machines anymore.
We don't have to do bulk
operations over the network to
try to manipulate those accounts.
We just change them in one central
place and hopefully they just all
work with all of our remote machines.
So a great thing also,
kind of a side benefit of this is
that anyone deploying a directory
service is going to deploy one that
also has a system for redundancy,
both in the fact that if one goes down,
I've got another one that's still up.
But when you have multiple
directory servers,
you can also provide a level of load
balancing as well for authentications.
Now, these are primarily IT things
that we worry about,
things that make us happy.
Well, for a user,
there are very few things
that an IT organization does
that makes our lives happy.
Okay, let's admit that.
But one of the things they can do is
give us single sign-on for a user.
So when they sit down at a computer,
they can authenticate,
type in that password once,
and for the most part,
they're probably going to work
at that machine during the day.
They may not have to authenticate again
because they'll have the advantages
of single sign-on capabilities.
So whether it's a file share or
maybe even an internal website,
they may not have to authenticate
again the rest of the day.
That's nice.
No more yellow stickies up on
the monitor with their password.
And lastly,
because we're a developer crowd as well,
it gives developers a single target
for a target API to write to.
So on Mac OS X,
developers can write to our
directory services layer,
and they don't have to worry
about what the back-end storage
is for the user accounts or
any of the policy information.
They can work with our
directory services API,
and it's very simple for them
to support a number of different
architectures on the back-end.
They don't have to worry about it.
So let's talk first a little
bit about Open Directory,
which is the way that
Mac OS X does directory services.
Now it's based on open source
in many different areas.
First, from the directory side of things,
it's based on OpenLDAT.
So we take these open source tools
and we're using them in a lot of
our areas of our operating system.
And when we talk about open directory
or an open directory system,
we talk about that being something that's
used on the client as well as the server.
You may hear of a server being an
open directory master or a replica,
so those are specific to servers,
but on the clients,
open directory is still the method
that we connect into those servers,
so it's kind of an umbrella term.
Now, there's really three areas that
make up the directory service
in open directory in Mac OS X.
First is the LDAP server that pretty
much has a standard schema that
you'd expect on an LDAP server that
you would find in an organization.
But we've also added Mac-specific
schema that can support additional
things like management and things
that apply specifically to the Mac.
The next area is Kerberos.
So we have MIT's Kerberos
as part of Open Directory,
and that's going to handle
your authentication.
So very well respected, very widely used,
but not so easy to implement on
a number of different platforms.
If you've ever tried to do this in Unix,
it's not always that
easy and straightforward.
So on Mac OS X,
it's a couple of button clicks,
and you've deployed a full,
on the server anyway,
you've deployed a full Kerberos system.
And then the third key piece
of this is an open source piece
of technology called Sassl,
which we use as our password framework.
So when we store passwords on the server,
the password goes in once,
and it's stored inside
of the Sassl framework,
security framework.
And that password never
comes out of there again.
It's a vault.
It's simply,
when authentication is needed,
it verifies that the password is correct,
but that password is,
for all intents and purposes,
locked away.
it's never gonna get out of there.
Now the last thing that's really
great about Open Directory is
that it's plugin based.
And we hear a lot about plugins
all over the operating system.
This is one of the places
where it's extremely usable.
In fact, Apple's LDAP and built-in
directory services tools
are all plugins themselves.
Okay, so we know that the plugin
architecture works well,
but one of the most widely used
plugins is Active Directory plugin.
So let's take a little bit of a look at
that and how this works in the platform.
So just the last slide,
you heard me mention that
Open Directory was based
on LDAP and Kerberos.
Well, what a surprise.
Active Directory is based on
LDAP and Kerberos as well.
Yeah, they probably have some
secret sauce in there,
right?
But...
They're essentially built
on the same technology,
so why can't they work
together pretty easily,
right?
That allows us with our
Active Directory plugin to bind
a Mac OS X client or server
[Transcript missing]
Well,
you may not want to sit at every machine
and use the command line to do that,
but what about if you had automated
scripts that could use that
DSConfigAD tool and automatically
configure and bind machines as soon as
they're imaged and put on the network?
So a very easy way to bind those
machines into your directory service.
Now what's also great
is if you're an admin,
you can configure it so that every
machine that's bound to your network,
you can sit down in front of and
still authenticate as an admin,
even if the user that's using
the machine has just standard
user policy given to them.
Now we can also do some nice
things like cached local accounts.
So if your machine is
connected to the network,
that's great.
But what if you're on a laptop and you
want to disconnect from the network?
One of the things we can do is
cache that account and those
credentials locally on the machine,
unplug from the network, walk away,
you can still authenticate
to that machine.
So it's authentication
information is stored,
encrypted on the machine,
and you can still authenticate
no matter where you are.
You can also have a local
or a network home directory.
So if your active directory has a
network home directory already stored,
a location for that
already stored for you,
you're going to pick that
up and automatically use it.
We can also configure this so that
you can have a local home directory.
Now that goes great in combination
with the local cached accounts.
So when you leave the office,
you have your cached credential,
you also have your home
directory available with you,
and you can also configure that
to automatically sync back to
your network home directory.
So when that data changes,
when you're on the road, you come back,
plug in,
you can have it sync back to your
home directory on your Windows Server.
Now additionally,
we've got a couple of classes
that you may want to or sessions
that you may want to attend.
There's a directory services
lab that will allow you to play
with all of these technologies
and see how they work hands-on.
And then there's another session,
extending and troubleshooting directory
services that I highly recommend,
specifically if you're looking
at active directory integration.
Next, let's cover policy management.
As I mentioned,
Mac users are probably used to
this term as client management.
But because this is talking
specifically from an IT perspective,
probably from a
Windows type of perspective,
we're going to continue to use
policy management as our term.
And this is basically about controlling
your user's work environment,
right?
So we use it in a number of ways.
First of which is to
enforce our IT policies,
right?
We're IT, we got policies,
let's enforce them, right?
Don't let people do this,
don't let them do that,
make sure they do it this way.
We also can push out
application preferences,
or at least default
application preferences anyway.
If we don't want them with iTunes,
we don't want them to be able
to go to the iTunes store,
we can push out maybe a
preference that keeps them
from visiting the iTunes store.
Now additionally,
policy management can be stored and
pushed out using our directory services.
So kind of a great one-two punch.
Directory services and policy management,
they go great together.
And this is the same
way we do it on the Mac.
So whether you're bound
to Active Directory or
Open Directory on the Mac,
we can still push out client management
and policy information that way.
Now,
it can be stored in AD or Open Directory,
but if you're going to do further
work in the policy management area,
if you want to use
Active Directory by itself alone
and not integrate any other systems,
you're going to probably want to
install schema extensions into
Active Directory that allow you to
then add the attributes that Apple uses
to control policy information.
Okay, it's about 24 attributes.
If you're interested in this,
talk to your Apple rep.
They can get you discussions with
Apple's professional services group.
They can provide a little bit
more information in that area if
you want to extend that schema.
They've got a lot of experience
doing that over the last few years.
Now, if you don't want to change
your Active Directory server or
you have policies against that,
one of the things you can do is bind
your Mac for user authentication,
user accounts to Active Directory,
and then have your Mac also pick up
policy information from Open Directory.
So a dual binding capability,
and that allows you to do that as well.
So it does require that you have
Mac OS X Server in that environment,
but it works very well and is an
easy way to overcome IT that's
nervous about extending the schema.
We do recommend schema as
probably the best way to do it,
but you can do it either way.
Additionally,
there are some third-party tools that
you could look at if either of those
aren't going to work well for you.
And the first tool is
Admin Mac from Thursby.
They've been around for
quite a while doing this.
They do allow you to do policy
management without extending your schema.
And then...
If you're also looking to have
additional types of clients,
also integrate into
Active Directory such as Linux,
Unix, a number of other additional
platforms other than Windows.
Centrify has software that can allow
you to bind your Macs in and not allow
you to have to extend your schema.
So a couple of tools.
There are more out there.
Just use Google, find them.
Now let's talk specifically policy
management from a very basic perspective,
just on a local machine level.
We mentioned parental controls,
and they're a little bit misleading
because that's how it happens
to be represented in the GUI.
But parental controls allow us to do some
basic restrictions on local accounts.
We can regulate application usage.
So you can say these
applications you can't run,
these are applications you can run.
We can restrict websites and say,
"These are ones you can access,
these you can't." We can log those.
We can also monitor email on
the account that's attached,
the email account that's
attached to that system.
We can log chats if you need to,
depending on policy.
And you can also use time restrictions.
So you can say this user can only
log in between these time periods
or this user can only use the
computer for this amount of time.
Okay, sounds great for restricting
kids' access to a computer.
So that's probably where we
get the parental controls from,
right?
Now, you can also use this in
combination with a guest account.
Okay, so combine those two together.
You do have some capabilities for
doing policy management locally without
having to integrate a lot of extra
[Transcript missing]
If you have Mac OS X Server and
you've got Workgroup Manager,
that's kind of a last resort.
You can run that locally on a computer
and apply policy to specific accounts on
that computer using Workgroup Manager.
It's kind of a last ditch.
If you absolutely have to
configure somebody's policy and
that's the only way to do it,
Workgroup Manager can work against the
local account database in that regard.
So from a little bit more
advanced perspective,
let's look at a server-based
deployment scenario.
So we talked about it,
we can extend the schema.
We bind Macs to
Active Directory with our plugin.
We manage users using our
normal Active Directory tools,
right?
Using the tools that Microsoft gives you.
In that scenario though,
you would use Workgroup Manager and
you would authenticate against
Active Directory with our tool,
and that would allow you to manage
the Apple specific sections where
it specifically applies to policy.
Okay.
So it does require that extended schema,
but you manage policy
with Workgroup Manager.
That's important.
Windows cannot create our policies.
Okay.
We have to create them with our own tool.
And those policy settings are then
delivered with our directory service,
which is the Active Directory plugin.
You can apply policy at the
user group computer level,
and you can also do
combinations of those,
and we'll composite those
policies together if needed.
And what's great is if you
have those offline accounts
or those cached accounts,
we also cache that policy information
so when you leave the network,
you still have that enforcement on the
account that you're using to log in.
So just because you leave
the network and go home,
it doesn't mean that you can get
around the policy that IT has
enforced on that computer.
Now, if you're interested in more
information in this area,
there's the Managed Clients
Lab and also Managing Clients
and Preferences Session 517.
So two great areas where you can
find more information on this.
And now Jason's gonna come up,
he's gonna give you a
demo of Workgroup Manager,
specifically in the area
of policy management,
and show you some of the powerful
things that you can do with Workgroup
Manager in managing your Macs.
Jason, over to the demo.
So at this point,
I'm once again back in Workgroup Manager.
And up at the top here,
before we were looking at accounts,
so this was where we saw some
of the settings about basic and
advanced settings related to
the particular user account.
But if I click over here to Preferences,
this is how I'm actually going
to go ahead and manage my policy.
So as you look through here,
there's some different types
of policy I can manage.
For example, mobility settings,
if I want to set up login
accounts for mobile accounts.
I can come in and look at
universal access settings.
Depending on the types of settings,
they are available in
different categories.
So for example, if you take a look here,
I have, what, 13 items right now.
If I look at a group, I'm sorry, if I,
yeah, there we go.
If I come over here and
I look at a computer account,
I actually get a couple extra settings.
So for example, this allows me to look
at time machine settings.
Depending on the type of
preferences you're trying to manage,
they may be managed at different levels.
And you can actually manage
several of them on multiple levels.
So for example,
maybe I want to have a group of
users who have a particular set of
applications launched when they log in,
while I want one user to have a
different set of applications.
I can configure that easily using
Policy Management and Workgroup Manager.
So I'm just going to set up my
Joe demo account here with a
couple quick policy settings.
Again, I have the same options under
parental controls that you would
find in the system preferences
panel on a standard computer,
on a standard client workstation.
But I have an ability to manage
this at a directory service level,
so I can push this out to an entire
organization through one set of settings.
Now, across the top,
when you're looking at this interface,
you'll see a few different options here.
Never manage the settings.
And the interesting thing about this is
when you first start working with this,
this isn't like an ACL rule where
it'll keep it from happening if
you have it managed elsewhere.
So, for example, if I'm,
I may not be managing the parental
control settings at a user level,
but if I'm managing
them at a group level,
those group level
settings will still apply.
This doesn't mean it
will stop applying them.
You'll also see an
option here for always.
And basically what this will do
is make it so that the user cannot
even change the option in the app.
So, if I set these settings in here,
they go into the...
- So, just a quick one here.
I'm gonna say I'm gonna always manage and
I'm gonna do some basic limiting to limit
the user to a specific set of sites.
And I'm just gonna say local.
So they won't be able to get off
anything but the site that's on the
server itself that I'm using here.
Go ahead and click Done.
And now I want to come back in
and I'm going to manage some login
settings for the user so that I want
to have a particular set of login
items load when they first log in.
Now, you'll notice here I have the
option to set this option once.
So basically, if I want to set kind of
some defaults for my users,
I can set the manage policy in
here to say I want to have it,
you know,
for the first time the user logs in,
I want them to load address book.
But then if they decide they don't want
address book to load when they log in,
it's able to be disabled.
So we'll actually go ahead
and say address book here.
And just a couple other options in here,
like you have Network Home SharePoint for
network home users,
Group SharePoints for
when they're in a group.
A lot of stuff you can set
in here depending on what
you're also working with.
For example,
if we were working with a computer
account instead of a user account,
I can set login scripts and such.
I'm just gonna do a couple other
little things just to mix up what
the user's account's gonna look like.
I'm gonna push the dock over
to the left side of the screen.
Let's see.
And now I'm gonna go ahead and just to
take a look at the information here,
I have, if you look next to these icons,
I have this little
darkened arrow in a circle,
and that actually indicates quickly
to me that I'm managing policy
for this user at that setting.
So for this account, Joe Demo,
I can see just at a glance that I'm
managing those three sets of preferences.
While if I look at this
podcast admin account,
I can see clearly that there's
no management going on.
If I click over here to the Details tab,
I get a little further information
about what's being managed.
So, for example,
if I look at the doc settings
here and I click the pencil,
it'll actually show me what
preferences are specifically
being managed for the doc.
Now, the interesting thing about this is
what's really being manipulated on the
back end is what we call property lists.
These are just simple
XML formatted files that,
or in some cases binary file formats,
that contain the specific
settings that are being managed.
So,
much as Brian was talking about earlier
where you'll find these inside your
home folder inside library preferences,
what you're doing is forcing the
values in those files so that
when the user logs in and they go
to open a particular application,
it's going to look at that file and those
settings are all going to be in place.
An additional nice thing about
this is you can have what's
called preference manifests.
And Brian alluded to this earlier
where if I have a particular
application that I want to manage
that's not necessarily in this list,
I can take the preferences file for
it and I can drop it into this box and
make use of those preferences and manage
them even though it's not necessarily
built in as part of the original
infrastructure for the application.
For example,
if I come over here and I look,
I really don't have any time
machine preferences managed and
I don't even have an ability to
manage them for my user account.
But maybe I want to keep that
box from popping up saying,
do I want to use this as a
time machine drive every time
I plug in a new FireWire drive?
Well, what I can do is click plus here
and right on my desktop I have a
file that has the preference in it.
And now I can see I've added a new
preference to the list for time machine.
And if I look at the settings
for that particular one,
I can see that here's the do not
offer new disks for backup option.
And I'm just going to move
that to always manage.
And now at this point,
this user should not
get that option anymore.
It won't pop up the box
and won't annoy your users.
So now that I've set all
these different preferences,
I'm just going to go ahead and test
them out so I can show you it in action.
And as I'm logging in,
you can see my docs on the
left side of the screen.
Address book popped open for me.
And even though I have all
these different drives on here,
Time Machine's not giving me any trouble.
So that's just a quick overview
of some of the different things
you can do with policy management.
Again, it's a very flexible system,
I think more so than even group
policy on the Windows side,
because you can manage far more options
than are traditionally available to you.
Brian.
Thanks, Jason.
And now the last area that
we're gonna cover today,
system deployment.
Now there are really three areas
of system deployment that we talk
about when we talk to customers.
First is, how do we image that system?
Whether it's out of the box from a
reseller or out of the box and we've
done something to it at our corporate
headquarters and distributed it.
So how do we image that system?
How does it get to us?
What shape is it in?
Then how do we inventory that hardware
and software that's on the computer,
both initially and over time,
how do we keep up with updates?
And then finally,
maintaining that system,
software updates,
keeping it running well.
Sometimes we may have to push out an
additional script to do some changes,
some fundamental changes to our system.
So really those three areas.
We'll talk about how we do
system deployment in a couple
of different environments.
So first is Windows.
A lot of people use a very popular
Ghost program to do their imaging.
Sometimes it's local with a boot floppy
or a boot CD and they'll kick it off.
And a lot of times that's Pixie
booted and they'll restore
a machine over the network.
And typically you're using
the Windows.msi files,
and you're going to push
those out in some manner,
whether it's the Windows tool
itself or some third-party tool.
Now,
there are also a variety of tools on the
Windows side to do system management.
So you may be using one of those
various tools today to already do that,
or Windows, the Microsoft tools.
And they're using software maintenance
options on the platform as well to
do your push of software and security
updates beyond initial deployment.
So how does that map kind
of to the Mac experience?
Well, we're gonna talk about the
Mac in a couple of areas.
First, a very simple Mac deployment.
Let's say you have under 10
Macs that you're working with,
but you know you want 100 or 1,000 later,
right?
So let's talk about the small deployment.
Well, you're gonna build a master
image typically on a,
find your newest Mac,
and you're gonna build that system,
make it perfect exactly as
you want it to be deployed.
And you're going to create a
disk image of that deployment,
of that hard drive.
And once you have that image,
you can then use a number of
different tools to deploy it.
You can use disk utility
to create that image.
You can also use a number of shareware
tools that are on the market to do that.
Just Google those.
And typically, you're going to deploy
it with a FireWire drive.
A lot of people will boot the
system up with a FireWire drive
and then go ahead and deploy that
image right onto the hard drive,
write it out, and image it.
Now, one of the things you can do
is with Apple Remote Desktop,
you manage those systems in
Apple Remote Desktop and periodically
have them talk back to the
Apple Remote Desktop server product,
and they'll upload their
software information and their
hardware specs automatically.
Once they're uploaded, they're in the
Apple Remote Desktop database,
and you can do queries
against that anytime you want.
So even if the computers
have been shipped off,
somebody's in Africa on a
photo shoot using a computer,
that information has been stored in a
local database in Apple Remote Desktop.
You can always query it.
And then you can also push software
updates using Apple Remote Desktop.
So grab a group of machines
that you've deployed,
Tell it you want to
install a specific package,
software package, the PKG format,
and it'll go ahead and send those,
push those updates out to the computers.
Either in real time, right as you ask it,
or if you're running
Apple Remote Desktop as a
client server type of model,
that server remote desktop copy is going
to sit there and watch the network and
wait for computers to join the network,
and when they do,
they'll go ahead and push
those updates out to them.
So a computer doesn't necessarily have
to be on the network right at the time
that you push an update for it to happen.
It will make sure that does happen.
Now, optionally,
you can configure your systems
to talk to Apple's remote,
I'm sorry,
Apple's software update server.
So if you have Mac OS X Server,
you can turn on the software
update server capability,
and it basically acts as a local proxy
for all of Apple's software updates.
Now, this does a couple of things.
It reduces the network load that you
might be using to do software updates
over your connection to the Internet.
But really the most
important thing it does,
though, is it allows you to check
out a software update,
hold it in your system,
do some testing in your IT labs,
make sure that an update is something
that's not going to break anything
that you've got set up and configured,
and then when it's complete,
you can go ahead and release
that and allow it to go through
the software update process,
and the machines can then find it,
install that software update.
So a couple of great uses for that.
Let's look at a little bit
more of an advanced deployment.
You build and create your
images basically the same way.
But in an environment where
you've got hundreds of machines
now or maybe thousands,
let's think of a campus environment even,
you'd probably deploy that
image using a Netboot server.
And for that,
you'd need a Mac OS X server
running the Netboot server,
and the system can boot off
of that and image the machine
right off of the Netboot server.
So, in a great way,
especially in a distributed environment
where you can just simply press,
hold down the N key,
the system can boot up over
the network and image itself.
You can then configure the client to
pull updates from Software Update Server,
as we mentioned in the last deployment.
And in most cases, imaging, inventorying,
and distributing third-party software,
you may even be,
you may want to use a system
that you already have in place.
A lot of systems that
people have to do that with
Windows already support the Mac.
Okay, so just check and see if
you have a Mac client.
Okay, so some of those include Altares,
FileWave, Landesk, LandRev,
great product, and RadMinder Puppet.
So some of you may already be
using some of these tools or you're
interested in some cross-platform tools.
Those are some great options.
Okay,
so if you're interested in this area,
you're probably gonna wanna look at
managing Macs with NetBootPrefs and ARD,
session 908.
So what have we learned?
Okay, I'm the only thing keeping you
from pizza out in the hallway,
so we'll cover this pretty quick.
What have we learned today?
Well, Macs really are standards-based,
right?
We're so standard, in fact,
that you can take Windows,
install it on the Mac via Boot Camp,
and it will run, okay?
So very standards-based hardware.
Second, knowledge is transferable.
So some of you that are
MCSEs or Unix admins,
or if you have those types of
people back at your offices,
you can see that through the
GUI or through the command line,
most of that knowledge that they have
is very easily transferable to the Mac.
We've also seen that it's very
easy to leverage existing resources
that you have in your environment.
So whether it's Active Directory that
you already have deployed,
it's very, very easy to use those
existing systems that you have.
The key though is if you're kind of new
to the platform and you're just starting,
start simple.
You don't have to go for the most
advanced management options right away.
Start simple and as it meets your
needs or you start to outgrow that,
then migrate up to a little bit
more advanced way to do some things.
And lastly, I can't stress this enough.
Take what you've seen here today,
because this is not a very deep dive,
as we said.
Take the information you've seen
today and go to the detail sessions.
They'll be able to answer most
of your questions there as well.
And so that's really where you're gonna
get the most out of this is the sessions.
So I've listed them up
here just very briefly,
just as the same ones that we've covered.
I won't read through these.
These are all the IT track,
the orange sessions.
Okay, and one last page that
we want to cover here.
These are the labs, so hands-on,
get to see how this stuff works.
And then lastly,
when you leave here or later
tonight on your iPhones,
you've got some great resources on
the internet that I wanted to mention.
Apple.com slash ITPro,
that's a great resource.
It has a lot of Apple white papers
for a lot of the things that
we've already spoken about today.
Developer.apple.com slash documentation.
There's Mac OS X client and
Mac OS X server areas on there that
have some great detail information.
And then also MacEnterprise.org
and AFP548.com,
two great resources if you need to
find a little bit more detail in a
certain area or want to pose a question
for the internet to answer for you.